# Why GrowthLog?
Well, because I was working my way through the Odin Project's NodeJS course, and I needed to submit something for the [Blog API](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/node-path-nodejs-blog-api) assignment.

No, it's a bit more than that. The idea *started* with the Blog API assignment, but I didn't want to just hack together a quick, generic, MVP-in-one-week, styled-with-Bootstrap-defaults kind of solution. Nothing was wrong with such solutions. They represented authentic practice and real learning, and I had made a ton of them, even having been able to receive a junior dev job offers for one I made last year. But I was at the point where I wanted my software projects represent more than just of my learning basic of full-stack web dev. I wanted my software projects to have potential to make impact on the world, to get more users than just the family member who checks it out one time, and to reach a scale that resembled mature production systems. This is the desire which shaped what you will see here in GrowthLog.

## My long-term vision for GrowthLog
I love bodybuilding, and more so the philosophy of self-improvement. But I feel like in the social media landscape today, no platform caters specifically to people interested in sharing their self-improvement journeys and hearing about those of others. People such as myself who would like to share stories about their personal growth would have to compete with the rest of the world in an algorithm which optimized for shallow short-form content, commercialized attention, ran on trends and not community, and is increasingly polluted with AI-generated content. I wanted GrowthLog to be the antidote: a community of one thousand or so human beings sharing their life stories in blog posts which are as long as they need to be, their blogs ranked in an algorithm that optimizes for the most epic, genuinely engrossing stories.

### About the docs
I have done my best to not only build a performant, scalable, secure, maintainable REST API but to also thoroughly document the rationale behind my tech stack selection, how my infrastructure works, the way that the different flows of my REST (e.g. authentication) coordinate, and, of course, the API reference. For the web app and mobile app, documentation about the tech stack selection, deployment pipelines, and general app structures are also available. I believe that the ability to write documentation which strikes the balance between detail and scope is one of the essential skills which differentiate the good software developers from the great software engineers.
